Political Asylum Applicant welcome wagon

Welcome to the United States. Political asylum is one of the most difficult of circumstances to arrive in this country and, for genuine applicants, qualifying for that status was no doubt a horror show of difficulty. Our sympathies for what you’ve gone through. Your road to safety, unfortunately, goes through the bulk of your fellow applicants, who do not actually qualify for political asylum according to international and US law. They are clogging up the system so badly that it is currently scheduled to take many years to get through all the applications and more are coming in, clogging the system further every day. 

These fraudulent applications make people upset, and justifiably so. While everyone is waiting, they gain the right to work and disproportionately compete with low-skilled legal resident and citizen workers, a job sector that already has been falling behind in wage growth over the past several decades, further putting downward pressure on wages. 

Having new people come in and drive their wages down using a scam makes people angry and think that we should rethink the entire idea of how we accept people for political asylum in this country. 

You have entered a country where political activists have already decided your political effect on future elections and, unsurprisingly, the ones who think you will benefit them, want more people to be accepted, and the ones that think that they will lose want fewer admitted. But the essence of this country is that we all individually decide what we believe in and whom we support in politics. Deciding for yourself after you listen honestly to everyone is one of the most American things you can do on the subject. 

Get a lawyer. You will need one. Listen to your lawyer as to what you can and cannot do. If you find out you have been inappropriately registered to vote when that is illegal, let your lawyer know. If you find out that someone has fraudulently registered a political donation in your name and address, let your lawyer know. Illegal activity can jeopardize your chances to be accepted for political asylum. Do not just let that go in the hope that nobody will notice. Eventually, someone will, and even if you’ve been granted citizenship, it can all be undone in certain cases of crime and fraud. Ask your lawyer for details. This is not legal advice, which is a term of art in the US. 

For those of you who are looking to delay your hearing for as long as possible so you can make money, earning back all the costs you expended to get to the United States, you should be aware that there is a sixth amendment right to a speedy trial. Your scheme depends on US politicians continuing to not take that seriously. Don’t count on it. A declaration of a state of emergency and with it an enlargement of the number of courts to hear currently backlogged cases can happen pretty much any time. 